content/posts/2021-when-testing-got-easy/index.md, before:

---
title: "When Testing Got Easy - a story about SMTP and Docker"
date: 2021-03-03T15:55:59+01:00
tags : [testing, smtp, mail, python, docker]
draft: false
thumbnail: "images/debby-hudson-oVQBn0X2oEk-unsplash-2.jpg"
images: "images/debby-hudson-oVQBn0X2oEk-unsplash-2.jpg"
---
Sometimes it's the simple tings, that are the hardest.
For a small projekt, i'm working on, I have to test sending a lot of emails. A simple thing, but in my case, I don't have a local SMTP server. 

I could set one up, but then, I have to configure users, maybe MX records, and other stuff. 
I have used [AWS simple email service](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/) in the past, and that was high on my list, but I would really like to keep things local, and not having to configure a lot of stuff. 

The solution I found, was so simple, that I had to share it here.

A simple email server, running in a Docker container, with a web interface, to read the emails. Meet [Mailhog](https://hub.docker.com/r/mailhog/mailhog/)

I have created a [Github repo](https://github.com/rhjensen79/smtp-test), with the files shown here, so it's easy to clone and use yourself.

## Installation

To get started, I created a Dockerfile, that I found in the main [Docker repo](https://hub.docker.com/r/mailhog/mailhog/)

```
#
# MailHog Dockerfile
#

FROM alpine:3.4

# Install ca-certificates, required for the "release message" feature:
RUN apk --no-cache add \
    ca-certificates

# Install MailHog:
RUN apk --no-cache add --virtual build-dependencies \
    go \
    git \
  && mkdir -p /root/gocode \
  && export GOPATH=/root/gocode \
  && go get github.com/mailhog/MailHog \
  && mv /root/gocode/bin/MailHog /usr/local/bin \
  && rm -rf /root/gocode \
  && apk del --purge build-dependencies

# Add mailhog user/group with uid/gid 1000.
# This is a workaround for boot2docker issue #581, see
# https://github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker/issues/581
RUN adduser -D -u 1000 mailhog

USER mailhog

WORKDIR /home/mailhog

ENTRYPOINT ["MailHog"]

# Expose the SMTP and HTTP ports:
EXPOSE 1025 8025
```

To make it easier to run and to stop, I then created a docker-compose.yml file, in the same directory.

```
version: "3"
services:
  mailhog:
    build: .
    ports:
      - 1025:1025
      - 8025:8025
```
All it does, is to build the Dockerfile and to expose port 1025 (for SMTP) and 8025 (for Web) on my local computer.

I then created a mail.py file, with the content i found [here](https://www.javatpoint.com/python-sending-email), to send an email, using the docker smtp server.

```
import smtplib    
sender_mail = 'sender@fromdomain.com'    
receivers_mail = ['reciever@todomain.com']    
message = """From: From Person %s  
To: To Person %s  
Subject: Sending SMTP e-mail   
This is a test e-mail message.  
"""%(sender_mail,receivers_mail)    
try:    
   smtpObj = smtplib.SMTP('localhost:1025')    
   smtpObj.sendmail(sender_mail, receivers_mail, message)    
   print("Successfully sent email")    
except Exception:    
   print("Error: unable to send email")   
```
Note that I changed the port, in the python script, to match the port on the server (1025)

All I had to do now, was to run 

```
docker-compose up -d
```
To start the container, and run it in the background.

Run 
```
python3 mail.py
```
To use the script to send an email.

and open [http://localhost:8025](http://localhost:8025)
![Login](images/login.png)
As you can see, there is an email in the inbox.
The server is setup, to catch all the emails that we send to it. 

![mail](images/mail.png)
And when we open it, we can read the content. 

When i'm done testing, all I need to do is to run 
```
docker-compose down
```
And everything is cleaned up.

Hope you found this usefull. For me, this will prove valuable, for my testing. 


<span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@hudsoncrafted?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Debby Hudson</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/typewriter?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>

Commit message:

Udated description for all my posts

content/posts/2021-when-testing-got-easy/index.md, after:

---
title: "When Testing Got Easy - a story about SMTP and Docker"
date: 2021-03-03T15:55:59+01:00
tags : [testing, smtp, mail, python, docker]
draft: false
thumbnail: "images/debby-hudson-oVQBn0X2oEk-unsplash-2.jpg"
images: "images/debby-hudson-oVQBn0X2oEk-unsplash-2.jpg"
description: "How to automaticly create your own Docker container, with all the tools you need, and update it automaticly, when new verions get's realesed."
---
Sometimes it's the simple tings, that are the hardest.
For a small projekt, i'm working on, I have to test sending a lot of emails. A simple thing, but in my case, I don't have a local SMTP server. 

I could set one up, but then, I have to configure users, maybe MX records, and other stuff. 
I have used [AWS simple email service](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/) in the past, and that was high on my list, but I would really like to keep things local, and not having to configure a lot of stuff. 

The solution I found, was so simple, that I had to share it here.

A simple email server, running in a Docker container, with a web interface, to read the emails. Meet [Mailhog](https://hub.docker.com/r/mailhog/mailhog/)

I have created a [Github repo](https://github.com/rhjensen79/smtp-test), with the files shown here, so it's easy to clone and use yourself.

## Installation

To get started, I created a Dockerfile, that I found in the main [Docker repo](https://hub.docker.com/r/mailhog/mailhog/)

```
#
# MailHog Dockerfile
#

FROM alpine:3.4

# Install ca-certificates, required for the "release message" feature:
RUN apk --no-cache add \
    ca-certificates

# Install MailHog:
RUN apk --no-cache add --virtual build-dependencies \
    go \
    git \
  && mkdir -p /root/gocode \
  && export GOPATH=/root/gocode \
  && go get github.com/mailhog/MailHog \
  && mv /root/gocode/bin/MailHog /usr/local/bin \
  && rm -rf /root/gocode \
  && apk del --purge build-dependencies

# Add mailhog user/group with uid/gid 1000.
# This is a workaround for boot2docker issue #581, see
# https://github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker/issues/581
RUN adduser -D -u 1000 mailhog

USER mailhog

WORKDIR /home/mailhog

ENTRYPOINT ["MailHog"]

# Expose the SMTP and HTTP ports:
EXPOSE 1025 8025
```

To make it easier to run and to stop, I then created a docker-compose.yml file, in the same directory.

```
version: "3"
services:
  mailhog:
    build: .
    ports:
      - 1025:1025
      - 8025:8025
```
All it does, is to build the Dockerfile and to expose port 1025 (for SMTP) and 8025 (for Web) on my local computer.

I then created a mail.py file, with the content i found [here](https://www.javatpoint.com/python-sending-email), to send an email, using the docker smtp server.

```
import smtplib    
sender_mail = 'sender@fromdomain.com'    
receivers_mail = ['reciever@todomain.com']    
message = """From: From Person %s  
To: To Person %s  
Subject: Sending SMTP e-mail   
This is a test e-mail message.  
"""%(sender_mail,receivers_mail)    
try:    
   smtpObj = smtplib.SMTP('localhost:1025')    
   smtpObj.sendmail(sender_mail, receivers_mail, message)    
   print("Successfully sent email")    
except Exception:    
   print("Error: unable to send email")   
```
Note that I changed the port, in the python script, to match the port on the server (1025)

All I had to do now, was to run 

```
docker-compose up -d
```
To start the container, and run it in the background.

Run 
```
python3 mail.py
```
To use the script to send an email.

and open [http://localhost:8025](http://localhost:8025)
![Login](images/login.png)
As you can see, there is an email in the inbox.
The server is setup, to catch all the emails that we send to it. 

![mail](images/mail.png)
And when we open it, we can read the content. 

When i'm done testing, all I need to do is to run 
```
docker-compose down
```
And everything is cleaned up.

Hope you found this usefull. For me, this will prove valuable, for my testing. 


<span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@hudsoncrafted?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Debby Hudson</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/typewriter?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>
