content/posts/2021-new-role/index.md, before:

---
title: "New Role"
date: 2021-10-20T12:25:48+02:00
tags : [Cloud Management, Modern Application, Tanzu, Kubernetes, developers]
draft: true
thumbnail: "images/jack-sloop-eYwn81sPkJ8-unsplash.jpg"
images: "images/jack-sloop-eYwn81sPkJ8-unsplash.jpg"
description: "Change of role, from Cloud Management to Applization Platform Tanzu"
thumbnail: "images/ross-findon-mG28olYFgHI-unsplash.jpg"
images: 
- "images/ross-findon-mG28olYFgHI-unsplash.jpg"
---
For the last +4 years, I have had the role, of Cloud Management Specialist @ VMware.

Starting 1 of november, I have been given the oppertunity, to change to our Modern Applications business unit, to focus on our [Tanzu platform](https://tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu).

Having spend the last couple of years, focusing on DevOps, and trying to understand what developers want/need, and how Operations can provide this, makes this a natural next step.

That said, i'm comming from an operations background, and just looking at the ecosystem in this space, means that i'm stepping into (for me) unknown terretory. 

But I can't remember that last time, I was this exited about a new role, and I can't wait to get started, and to start learning. 

So expect a lot more application focused content, from my side, in the future. 


Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@rossf?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Ross Findon</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/change?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>

Commit message:

published the new role post

content/posts/2021-new-role/index.md, after:

---
title: "New Role"
date: 2021-10-20T12:25:48+02:00
tags : [Cloud Management, Modern Application, Tanzu, Kubernetes, developers]
draft: false
thumbnail: "images/jack-sloop-eYwn81sPkJ8-unsplash.jpg"
images: "images/jack-sloop-eYwn81sPkJ8-unsplash.jpg"
description: "Change of role, from Cloud Management to Applization Platform Tanzu"
thumbnail: "images/ross-findon-mG28olYFgHI-unsplash.jpg"
images: 
- "images/ross-findon-mG28olYFgHI-unsplash.jpg"
---
For the last +4 years, I have had the role, of Cloud Management Specialist @ VMware.

Starting 1 of november, I have been given the oppertunity, to change to our Modern Applications business unit, to focus on our [Tanzu platform](https://tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu).

Having spend the last couple of years, focusing on DevOps, and trying to understand what developers want/need, and how Operations can provide this, makes this a natural next step.

That said, i'm comming from an operations background, and just looking at the ecosystem in this space, means that i'm stepping into (for me) unknown terretory. 

But I can't remember that last time, I was this exited about a new role, and I can't wait to get started, and to start learning. 

So expect a lot more application focused content, from my side, in the future. 

Btw. If you are interested in applying for my old role, then you can find it [here](https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/2751104475/?trk=eml-sjr-top-apply-cta&midToken=AQG1TdqRdNZw2Q&midSig=1bPXVPT9kZLpY1&trkEmail=eml-email_jobs_saved_job_reminder_01-null-0-mercado_redesign-null-4know%7Ekuztsuso%7E9d-null-jobs%7Eview)
I highly recommend the company, the job, and the collegaues :-) 


Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@rossf?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Ross Findon</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/change?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
